# My-Articles
**This repository contains my publications**

## The effect of different size reduction methods on the doxycycline-containing niosomes, prepared for the skin infection treatments:
**Abstract** <p align="justify"> Niosomes are a type of colloidal particle that can carry hydrophilic and hydrophobic drugs, increase drug bioavailability, prevent drug degradation, reduce the toxic effects of drugs, and deliver drugs to target sites.
The outermost layer of the epidermis, the horny layer, acts as a powerful barrier to the penetration of foreign matter. The main challenges of skin infection treatment include: Achieving the ideal balance between the local penetration of the therapeutic agent and its retention at the desired location in the skin layers for the desired duration, increased resistance of microorganisms to common antibiotics, use of conventional medication systems leading to undesirable side effects such as irritation, redness, dryness, and sensitivity to light due to lack of targeted delivery.
Doxycycline hyclate, the safest and most effective tetracycline antibiotic, effectively prevents the growth of many gram-positive and gram-negative skin bacteria. In order to increase the therapeutic effects and decrease side effects, we decided to load this drug into niosomal nanoparticles. In this study, a niosomal formulation containing doxycycline, with a molar ratio of 8:2 span60/cholesterol was prepared. Niosomal nano-particles were reduced in size by three methods of bath sonication, probe sonication, and extrusion. Then the sample was characterized in terms of morphology, particle size, drug entrapment efficiency, drug loading capacity, and drug release. Finally, release data were analyzed by several kinetic models.</p>

## Niosomal Gels for Use in Skin Treatments:
**Abstract** <p align="justify"> Human skin protects the body as a barrier against external attacks by microorganisms and other environmental factors. Drug release through the skin does not pose the risks of oral and injectable drug delivery, and the drug does not pass through paths with different pH, so there are no problems in the breakdown and metabolism of the drug in the body, and there is targeted delivery of the drug. There are different carriers for this type of release. However, today niosomes have received much attention because of their many benefits, including biodegradability, biocompatibility, and the ability to encapsulate large amounts of drug material in small volumes of vesicles, greater patient satisfaction, and greater effectiveness. Nevertheless, the physical stability of niosomes is a significant obstacle that limits their application to drug delivery systems. In order to reduce the rapid leakage of encapsulated drugs from the niosomes or minimize the explosive release observed in them, the niosomes are placed in a bed. Gels are suitable substrates for niosomes to improve release; therefore, this article reviews the reports of preparation and evaluation methods of gels containing niosome, and comparing gels containing niosome with gels without niosome. The results showed that higher viscosity, better penetration, more skin retention, and slower release were the characteristics of niosome-containing gels compared to niosome-free gels.</p>

## Application of Nano-niosomes in the Treatment of Skin Acne:
**Abstract** <p align="justify">Acne is a multifactorial and sebaceous follicles disease. Sebaceous follicles are located in areas prone to acne (cheeks, nose, and forehead). There are many obstacles to the successful treatment of acne. In this study, the pathogenesis of acne and the effective ingredients in acne treatment were briefly explained. In this regard, the potential of nanoparticles in the skin treatment of acne was reviewed. Then, the nanoniosome as effective nanoparticles in the treatment of this disorder was explained. Finally, the components of the niosomal formulation, the factors affecting the formation of niosomes, and their application in acne treatment were briefly described. In the end, it was concluded that nanoniosomes increase the therapeutic effects of effective drugs in the treatment of acne by reducing the side effects of drugs, controlling the release of drugs into the skin, accelerating local penetration, and targeting follicles.</p>
